tools: add the doc of TiDB-Binlog Monitoring Metrics (#705)
pingcap/docs: tools/tidb-binlog-monitor.md

    - If both `disk latency` and `util` are low, contact support@pingcap.com

### binlog_pump_storage_write_binlog_duration_time_bucket

- Description: The time it takes for Pump to write the local binlog to the local disk
- Monitoring rule: histogram_quantile(0.9, rate(binlog_pump_storage_write_binlog_duration_time_bucket{type="batch"}[5m])) > 1
- Solution: Check the state of the local disk of Pump and fix the problem

### binlog_pump_storage_available_size_less_than_20G

- Description: The available disk space of Pump is less than 20G
- Monitoring rule: binlog_pump_storage_storage_size_bytes{type="available"} < 20 * 1024 * 1024 * 1024
- Solution: Check whether Pump `gc_tso` is normal. If not, adjust the GC time configuration of Pump or get the corresponding Pump offline

### binlog_drainer_checkpoint_tso_no_change_for_1m

- Description: Drainer `checkpoint` has not been updated for one minute
- Monitoring rule: changes(binlog_drainer_checkpoint_tso[1m]) < 1
- Solution: Check whether all the Pumps that are not offline are running normally

### binlog_drainer_execute_duration_time_more_than_10s

> - Description: The transaction time it takes for Drainer to synchronize data to TiDB. If it is too large, the synchronization of Drainer is affected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Description: The transaction time it takes Drainer to synchronize data to TiDB. If it is too large, the Drainer synchronization of data is affected
```

- Monitoring rule: histogram_quantile(0.9, rate(binlog_drainer_execute_duration_time_bucket[1m])) > 10
- Solutions:
    
    - Check the TiDB cluster state

>     - Check the Drainer log or monitor. If a DDL operation causes this problem, just ignore it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Check the Drainer log or monitor. If a DDL operation causes this problem, you can ignore it
```

---
title: TiDB-Binlog Monitoring Metrics

> summary: This document introduces three levels of monitoring metrics of TiDB-Binlog.

Reviewer: Please refer to other documents for the summary sentence pattern. Only several specific sentence patterns are used.
